all right so this is the alienware m15
r3 it's the new one for 2020. and when
they first announced this
i kind of dismiss it i didn't think it
was like a big refresh it looks so
similar to last year's model i just kind
of went under the radar for me
uh but having gotten it in i realized
there's a lot of stuff that they've
changed under the hood
and we'll talk about them now my story
with last year's model the r2
this was a device that i thought was a
pretty good performer
very thin for an alienware device very
pretty
but i felt like thermally this wasn't
the best thing out there right i felt
like
it wasn't super competitive in terms of
just best performance
unless you tweaked it and you know
undervolted and repasted and stuff and
stuff that's more advanced so i just
never really recommended this thing
openly from last year's model it did
look really good though
they've addressed a lot of stuff this
year uh let's start off with the
exterior
this wasn't the problem with last year's
model but they've actually changed it
this is now a smooth like
hard finish last year's model had like a
soft touch finish to it i really like
this material but my impression
was that this was something that could
get dirty easily like if you had
i don't know cheetos covered fingers or
if you had
dirty fingers and you handled a white
laptop with
a soft touch finish it would invariably
smudge or just stain this material
this feels much more stained and smudge
resistant
but it's not as inviting to use like the
the top
deck as well like the keyboard area and
the top surface and the bottom panel are
all
re-finished they're no longer soft touch
but it still looks really good
now another thing we've changed this
year is the trim
around the panel so it's going to be
hard to see in this shot i'll do some
pickups but you can see
that they've added this rubber trim
around the edge of the screen
i think it serves two purposes one is
that when you open and close the device
it's a bit
just you know it's there there's less of
an impact when you close the lid
it's more of like a softer close versus
the old one it's more of like
a it's more like a louder snap
versus right it's subtle but there is a
difference
but secondly i also think that it serves
to reinforce
the actual bezel around the screen so on
last year's model the trim or the bezel
if you pushed it you could kind of see
it wobbling around a bit there wasn't a
ton of play but it was noticeable but
this here is just a sturdier
trim it's just everything seems to be
adhered a little bit tighter but the
bezel itself is still made with that
shiny or glossy plastic which i don't
personally love now another thing i
noticed
is that the screen is easier to open
with one hand not everyone cares about
the stuff but for the people that do
i think they tweaked the hinge tension
just a little bit
so that you can do this
if you care for it okay another thing
they've changed this year
is the speaker set up so last year's
models the r2s
they had bottom firing speakers only
they would just blast out from the
bottom of the laptop and hit the surface
of
whatever you were using it on this year
they still have bottom firing speakers
as like the main but they also have
these front firing ones
that point towards the user of the
device and this is kind of
more traditional in terms of alienware
like all of their older laptops used to
have these front firing speakers
and this is more akin to that
here's my take on them though they sound
better than the r2s
but they don't sound amazing like they
certainly don't sound as good as let's
say like macbook speakers
that's really the gold standard and it's
good that they've improved it but
if i had to like rate these numerically
let's say
five is an average gaming laptop speaker
right that's mathematically the average
right in the middle of zero and ten
five i would consider the r2s like six
maybe six and a half these are like a
seven and a half there's still a lot of
room that they could improve on
but when it comes to positional audio
these do a pretty good job like because
the front firing speakers are like the
higher frequencies
you can hear like gunshots and sounds
like footsteps and pickups
any kind of in-game sound that's used to
identify where
enemies are or where your teammates are
they come out pretty cleanly from these
front
firing speakers which the old ones did
not so if you're someone that doesn't
use headphones to play games
these are better okay let's talk about
thermal performance or just performance
in general
that was the thing that i did not like
about the r2 good
but not great this year
it's better but it's still not perfect
so okay let's talk about the hardware
improvements they've added
a vapor chamber for the cpu but only the
cpu the gpu still has
a regular heat pipe system now the
removal of heat
on a system like the alienware m15s has
always been a difficult thing for
for the company because alienware is a
company that really takes pride in their
ability to
bring out like the fastest performing
devices right they want to clock their
stuff
as high as possible they don't really
care too much about temperatures
and it's something that's difficult for
a reviewer like myself to convey to you
guys right
so here's the thing there are companies
out there uh let's say razer
they're a company that purposely lowers
their clock speed on their devices
i'm not talking about throttling they
will make their systems
run just a little bit slower to keep
their system cool all the time
alienware is not like that they like to
run their stuff as fast as possible
but stuff gets hotter because they're
just pumping more water to the cpu
and when you have a device like this
that's thin and they're trying to make
it look a certain way and they're trying
to keep these things running as fast as
possible
they're really hard to cool properly the
r3 is
noticeably cooler running than last
year's r2 for sure but you still need to
undervolt it to get the best
possible thermal performance and that's
something i wish alienware would do
right out of the factory just like
undervolt these things by a little bit
and then your consumer base would just
probably stop complaining about thermal
issues
but yeah it's good improved from last
year but it's still
just shy from what i would consider to
be a perfect
thermal system on this device okay uh
the fan noise
unchanged it still gets pretty loud at
the top end but i think for the average
user
it's a perfectly acceptable fan profile
the screens come in a few options this
one's the 1080p
300 hertz panel very fast and showcases
the hardware nicely games play
fluidly on it i do wish it was a little
bit brighter
but there is a 4k panel option if you
need something that's a little more
color accurate
and a screen that's brighter now inside
they've also changed a few other things
last year's model could not take more
than 16 gigs of ram like
regardless of how you configured it 16
was the max and it's
soldered on ram right so you can't ever
upgrade it this year they've allowed
up to 32 gigs of ram which is awesome
they've also changed the whole
motherboard layout it looks a little bit
different
it's still a flipped motherboard though
so if you want to replace it or do
anything that's more
complex it's a it's a more difficult
disassembly there's three ssd slots two
of them are like the big boy normal ones
and then there's like a small one for
people that want
a third nvme drive if they need it and
the battery has been upgraded this year
it's now an 86 watt hour block
it's a pretty decent size but i was only
getting four and a half hours on this
thing i thought i'd be able to hit five
pretty easily but four and a half hours
uh
ports so the ports remain unchanged
there is a micro sd slot though this
year
if that's something you're into why was
i pointing it like that you can't even
see that
micro sd okay uh let's talk about the
things that
haven't changed so like i said right
from the beginning this
is in my opinion one of the best designs
i've seen for a laptop it's such a
unique look like there's so much going
on but at the same time it looks
simple enough like you can obviously
turn off the lights and just keep it
relatively muted but if you want to you
can just turn them on
and flex on all those other laptop users
that aren't on your level
but i do think that this is such a cool
looking device and i really think this
is going to be the
at least one of the main reasons why you
would consider the m15s
another feature i really like on these
devices is
their keyboard i think i've mentioned in
the past but this has got to be one of
my personal favorite
gaming laptop keyboards everything about
it the
layout the typing mechanism the lighting
they do everything right on this thing
obviously you get some crazy alienware
lighting if you want
but the gaming and typing experience on
this keyboard is on point
uh the trackpad is glass they got a
really nice texture on it it is a pretty
loud click like
it's very audible so if you're in a work
environment that
doesn't allow you to click you're gonna
have to either tap or get a completely
different device
but yeah i like the trackpad but the
overall device is
much better this year i feel like the r2
last year's model was
it was a nice device but it was really
reserved for people that were focused on
like the aesthetic of it this year it
still looks really nice
but i feel like it's more competitive
like the thermal performance and i think
the pricing is
fair for what you're getting this year i
will say like the one
takeaway for me is that
they got to start using amd stuff in
here i feel like if they stuck
an amd chip inside here the temperature
problems would
wouldn't be a thing this would just be a
cooler running machine because
amd's ryzen chips are just they're lower
wattage
and you just it would solve a lot of
stuff i feel especially for the
enthusiast level
okay so that's the alienware m15r3
it's a much better pickup this year than
it was last year uh
there you have it okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs if you liked
it subs if you loved it
see you guys next time
[Music]
you